## Welcome to Transmute

Transmute is a binary that works alone or in coordination with coverage formatter to report test quality. It will change your code and make the tests fail. If don't, we will raise it for you.

Any software requires well-written tests. This is where transmute steps in.

The key features of transmute are:

* **Mutate**: Arbitrary code can be changed.

  Mutates booleans, numbers, strings, symbols, ranges, regexes and branches (if, while, unless, until)
  can be changed in order to make your specs fail.

* **Dynamic**: Automatically run the tests

  Provide how to run the tests and transmute will run it..

* **Coverage**: Transmute will run just the affected tests.

  Instead of running all the specs, we will run only the required specs.
  This is good to provide a quick feedback-loop.

* **Insights**: If the tests didn't fail, we will provide the information that you need to write a new tests case.

## Getting Started

```sh
$ transmute \
  --files "app/models/**/*.rb" \
  --coverage "transmute.json" \
  --command "rspec {file}" \
  --formatter "html" \
  --log-level "trace"
```

## Coverage file

Coverage is a file generated by the coverage formatter. We are building integration for the most used test libraries.

It is a good practice to provide the `coverage.json` file. It is very simple: For each implementation file, we have all the specs that touches it.
With that in hand, we don't need to run all specs in order to test one constant mutation.

## Contributing

I :heart: Open source!

##### Clone

```
git clone git@github.com:vgsantoniazzi/transmute.git
```

##### Compile

```
cargo build
```

##### Run tests

```
cargo test
```

##### Run with our dummy project

```sh
$ cargo run -- \
  --files "tests/fixtures/app/**/*.rb" \
  --coverage "transmute.json" \
  --command "rspec {file}" \
  --formatter "html" \
  --log-level "trace"
```

##### Format

```
cargo fmt
```

[Follow github guides for forking a project](https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/)

[Follow github guides for contributing open source](https://guides.github.com/activities/contributing-to-open-source/#contributing)

[Squash pull request into a single commit](http://eli.thegreenplace.net/2014/02/19/squashing-github-pull-requests-into-a-single-commit/)

## License

Transmute is released under the GNU license.
